Extreme weather continues to slam Midwest, South as fatalities rise SUBSCRIBE NOWto get home delivery News Sports Life Money Tech Travel Opinion Weather Icon Humidity Precip. Winds Open settings Settings Enter City, State or Zip Cancel Set Close settings Full Forecast Crosswords Elections 2016 Investigations Video Stocks Apps Best-Selling Books Classifieds College Corrections Interactives Newsletters Photo Galleries Portfolio Tracker Scores Web to Watch Your Take Newsstand Audio More News Sports Life Money Tech Travel Opinion Weather Crosswords Elections 2016 Investigations Video Stocks Apps Best-Selling Books Classifieds College Corrections Interactives Newsletters Photo Galleries Portfolio Tracker Scores Web to Watch Your Take Newsstand Audio Search User Sign in with FacebookSign in with GoogleSign In FAQ You are logged in as Log outSign In FAQ Get the news Log In or Subscribe to skip Sign in with FacebookSign in with GoogleSign in FAQ 178 4 Share This Story! Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about FacebookEmailTwitterGoogle+LinkedInPinterest Extreme weather continues to slam Midwest, South as fatalities rise Harsh snowstorms are expected to add to the fatal weather systems. Post to Facebook Extreme weather continues to slam Midwest, South as fatalities rise 

 Harsh snowstorms are expected to add to the fatal weather systems. 

 Check out this story on USATODAY.com: http://usat.ly/1YLUsop {# #} CancelSend Sent! A link has been sent to your friend's email address. Posted! A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. 10 Join the Nation's Conversation To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs Extreme weather continues to slam Midwest, South as fatalities rise John Bacon, USA TODAY 2:37 a.m. EST December 28, 2015 An EF-4 tornado claimed at least 8 lives in Garland, Texas, where residents describe shielding loved ones and rescuing strangers from the storm. VPC A heavily damaged residence is seen on Dec. 27 in the aftermath of a tornado in Rowlett, Texas. (Photo: AFP) 94 CONNECTTWEET 4 LINKEDIN 10 COMMENTEMAILMORE Severe weather that created a series of deadly tornadoes and flash flooding that killed at least 43 people across the Midwest and South was expected to continue Monday as governors across the affected regions declared states of emergency. A string of deadly tornadoes in the Dallas area killed at least 11 people. The state of Texas is seeing heavy rains, floods and bracing for what is feared will be an "epic" snowstorm. There will be an ongoing problem for the next 24 hours, but also for the next several days," Texas Gov. Greg Abbott said in a news conference Sunday. He issued disaster declarations in four counties and asked residents to stay off the roads. Missouri Gov. Jay Nixon declared a state of emergency Sunday as heavy rains and flash floods affected much of the state. At least six people have died in the flooding, including four soldiers from another country who were temporarily stationed at Fort Leonard Wood, Pulaski County Sheriff Ronald Long said in a statement late Sunday. Heavy snow was forecast from New Mexico all the way to Iowa, National Weather Service meteorologist Tim Oram told USA TODAY. On Sunday, snow and ice brought whiteout conditions and locked up roads across parts of Texas, New Mexico and Oklahoma. New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez declared a state of emergency, calling the weather issues there "dire." USA TODAY A deadly, fierce December for tornadoes Weather service meteorologist Mark Wiley said much of the region can expect 8-16 inches of snow, with some isolated areas seeing 20 inches or more before the storm slides East sometime Monday. "This is really going to be an epic snow in Texas," Wiley told USA TODAY. "Throw in 50-mph winds and we are calling for drifts to 10 or 12 feet." Hardest hit Saturday was Garland, Texas, a city of 230,000 people 20 miles northeast of Dallas, where eight people died and 15 were injured, police Lt. Pedro Barineau said. Most of the fatalities occurred on highways as multiple cars became caught in the severe weather, and several vehicles plunged as far as 17 feet from a bridge, authorities said. Barineau said 600 homes and businesses were damaged. The tornadoes that roared through Texas reached as high as an EF-4 classification, with winds reaching 175 mph, Oram said. This is the USA's first EF-4 tornado to strike in December in 15 years. EF-5 is the highest level. In addition to the fatalities in Missouri and Texas, five people were killed in Illinois and 19 in the Southeast. Contributing: William Cummings; The Associated Press  94 CONNECTTWEET 4 LINKEDIN 10 COMMENTEMAILMORE Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1YLUsop MORE STORIES
